---
source: "NVM-Express-Base-Specification-Revision-2.1-2024.08.05-Ratified.pdf"
page: 578
headings: ["8.1.21.3 Authenticated Device Configuration Block Write"]
---

# Source page 578

NVM Express® Base Specification, Revision 2.1

556
Figure 641: RPMB – Authenticated Data Read Flow
Command Bytes in Command Field Name Value Objective
Security
Send 1
Data populated by the host and sent to the controller
Read Data
request
222-N:00 Stuff Bytes 0…00h
222:222-(N-1) MAC/Key 0…00h
223 RPMB Target RPMB target to access
239:224 Nonce Nonce generated by the host
243:240 Write Counter 00000000h
247:244 Address Address in RPMB
251:248 Sector Count Number of 512B blocks
253:252 Result 0000h
255:254 Request/Response 0004h (Request)
Security
Receive 1
Data populated by the controller and returned to the host
Retrieve result
and data from
read request
222-N:00 Stuff Bytes 0…00h
222:222-(N-1) MAC/Key MAC generated by the
controller
223 RPMB Target RPMB target response was
sent from
239:224 Nonce Copy of the Nonce generated
by the host
243:240 Write Counter 0000h
247:244 Address Address in RPMB
251:248 Sector Count Number of 512B blocks
253:252 Result Result Code
255:254 Request/Response 0400h (Response)
(M-1)+256:256 Data Data read from RPMB target
 Authenticated Device Configuration Block Write
The Authenticated Device Configuration Block Write is initiated by a Security Send command. The RPMB
Data Frame delivered from the host to the controller includes the Request Message Type = 0006h, Sector
Count = 01h, MAC, Write Counter set to the current W rite Counter value, and the RPMB Device
Configuration Block data structure (refer to Figure 642). All other fields are cleared to 0h.
If the Write Counter has expired, then that controller sets the result to 0005h (write failure, write counter
expired) and no data is written to the Device Configuration Block.
The controller calculates the MAC of Request Type, Block Count, Write Counter, Address and Data, and
compares this with the MAC in the request. If the MAC in the request and the calculated MAC are different,
then the controller sets the result to 0002h (authentication failure) and no data is written to the RPMB Device
Configuration Block.
If the Data from the RPMB Device Configuration Block attempts to disable Boot Partition Protection, then
the controller sets the result to 0008h (Invalid RPMB Device Configuration Block) and no data is written to
the RPMB Device Configuration Block.
If the MAC in the request and the calculated MAC are equal, then the write request is authenticated. The
Data from the request is written to the RPMB Device Configuration Block.
If any other error occurs during the write procedure, then the returned result is 0001h (general failure).
The controller returns a successful completion for the Security Send command when the Authenticated
Data Write operation is completed regardless of whether the Authenticated Device Configuration Block
Write was successful or not.
When the host receives a successful completion of the Security Send command from the controller, that
host should send a Security Receive command to the controller to retrieve the data. The controller returns
an RPMB Data Frame with Response Message Type ( 0600h), the incremented counter value, the MAC,
and the Result. All other fields are cleared to 0h.
