---
source: "NVM-Express-Base-Specification-Revision-2.1-2024.08.05-Ratified.pdf"
page: 580
headings: ["8.1.22 Reservations"]
---

# Source page 580

NVM Express® Base Specification, Revision 2.1

558
received in the request, the RPMB Device Configuration Block Data Structure (refer to Figure 633), the
MAC, the Write Counter set to the current Write Counter value, and the Result. All other fields are cleared
to 0h.
The Write Counter for the Device Configuration Block is independent of the Write Counter for RPMB target
0. The controller returns the Device Configuration Block Write Counter as shown in Figure 643.
The MAC is calculated from Response Type, Nonce, Address, Data and Result fields. If the MAC calculation
fails, then the returned result is 0002h (authentication failure). If another error occurs during the read
procedure, then the returned Result is 0001h (general failure).
Figure 643: RPMB – Authenticated Device Configuration Block Read Flow
Command Bytes in Command Field Name Value Objective
Security
Send 1
Data populated by the host and sent to the controller
Request Device
Configuration
Block Read
222-N:00 Stuff Bytes 0…00h
222:222-(N-1) MAC/Key 0…00h
223 RPMB Target 00h
239:224 Nonce Nonce generated by the
host
243:240 Write Counter 00000000h
247:244 Address 00000000h
251:248 Sector Count 00000001h
253:252 Result 0000h
255:254 Request/Response 0007h (Request)
Security
Receive 1
Data populated by the controller and returned to the host
Retrieve Device
Configuration
Block Read
Result
222-N:00 Stuff Bytes 0…00h
222:222-(N-1) MAC/Key MAC generated by the
controller
223 RPMB Target 00h
239:224 Nonce Copy of the Nonce
generated by the host
243:240 Write Counter Current Write Counter value
247:244 Address 00000000h
251:248 Sector Count 00000001h
253:252 Result Result Code
255:254 Request/Response 0700h (Response)
767:256
Data RPMB Device
Configuration Block data
structure
 Reservations
NVM Express reservations provide capabilities that may be utilized by two or more hosts to coordinate
access to a shared namespace. The protocol and manner in which these capabilities are used is outside
the scope of this specification. Incorrect application of these capabilities may corrupt data and/or otherwise
impair system operation.
Reservation operation after a division event (refer to section 3.2.5.1) is described in section 3.2.5.2.
A reservation on a namespace restricts hosts access to that namespace. If a host submits a command to
a namespace in the presence of a reservation and lacks sufficient rights, then the command is aborted by
the controller with a status code of Reservation Conflict. If a host submits a command with the NSID set to
FFFFFFFFh in the presence of a reservation on any of the namespaces impacted by that command and
that host lacks sufficient rights on all the impacted namespaces, then the command is  aborted by the
controller with a status code of Reservation Conflict. Capabilities are provided that allow recovery from a
reservation on a namespace held by a failing or uncooperative host.
A command is checked for reservation conflict at the time that the controller begins processing that
command. If that reservation conflict check allows the command to be performed (i.e., the host has sufficient
