---
source: "NVM-Express-Base-Specification-Revision-2.1-2024.08.05-Ratified.pdf"
page: 467
headings: ["5.3.9.1 Manage Exported Port Management Operations", "5.3.9.1.1 Create (Management Operation 01h)"]
---

# Source page 467

NVM Express® Base Specification, Revision 2.1

445
Figure 528: Manage Exported Port Data Structure– Command Dword 10
Bits Description
31:16 Reserved
15:08 Management Operation Specific (MOS): If not defined for the management operation specified by the
Select field, this field is reserved.
07:00
Select (SEL): This field selects the type of management operation to perform.
Value Management Operation Reference Section
00b Reserved
01h Create 5.3.9.1.1
02h Delete 5.3.9.1.2
03h to FFh Reserved

 Manage Exported Port Management Operations
5.3.9.1.1 Create (Management Operation 01h)
The Create operation of the Manage Exported Port command is used to create an Exported Port in an
Exported NVM Subsystem and associate the Exported Port with an Underlying Port in the Ports List. The
resulting association enables the specified Exported NVM Subsystem to be accessed by hosts through the
specified Exported Port. The Exported Port ID for the Exported Port that is created may be specified by the
host or generated by the controller.
The data pointer shall point to an Create data structure (refer to Figure 530).
Figure 529: Management Operation Specific: Create operation
Bits Description
15:09 Reserved
08
Generate Exported Port ID (GEPID): A value of ‘0’ indicates an Exported Port ID is specified in the data
buffer and shall be used to create the new Exported Port. A value of ‘1’ specifies a Port ID shall be generated
by the controller and used to identify the Exported Port.

Figure 530: Create Data Structure
Bytes Description
255:00
Exported NVM Subsystem NVMe Qualified Name (SUBNQN):  NVMe Qualified Name (NQN) that
uniquely identifies the Exported NVM subsystem which shall be associated with the created Exported
Port. Refer to section 4.7.
257:256
Exported Port ID (EPID): If the Generate Exported Port ID bit in the Create operation is cleared to ‘0’,
then this field specifies a particular NVM subsystem port to be used for this Exported Transport and
associated with the Exported NVM Subsystem identified in the NVM Subsystem  NVMe Qualified Name
field in this data structure. Different NVMe Transports or address families may utilize the same Port ID
value (e.g., a Port ID may support both iWARP and RoCE). If the Generate Exported Port ID bit in the
Create operation is set to ‘1’, then this field shall be ignored by the controller.
259:258 Port ID of the Underlying Port (PIDUD): Refer to the PORTID field in Figure 294.
291:260 Transport Service ID (TRSVCID):  Specifies the NVMe Transport service identifier as an ASCII string.
The NVMe Transport service identifier is specified by the associated NVMe Transport specification.
319:292 Reserved
Upon successful completion of a Manage Exported Port command with a Create operation, Dword 0 of the
completion queue entry of the Manage Exported Port command contains the Exported Port ID associated
with the Exported NVM Subsystem (refer to Figure 531).
